---
comments: true
share: true
layout: post
categories: blog
tags: [writing]
title: Writers...Who Needs 'Em?
---
*Press Title to Read More!*

*Warning*
*I haven’t checked this for grammar. Like...I’m sure the grammar in this piece would give any English instructor a heart attack. Be warned.*

So I made it. Late, but I made it. Thursday afternoon was my first meeting with the Writer’s Community, an organization that allows creatives to present their written work to colleagues and open it for critique if they so choose. Being the great awful writer I am, I thought that this would be the perfect outlet for my creative inklings.

I enter the room (30 minutes late) and to my surprise, I was literally noticed by no one! A quick nod to the person presenting was in order, but I was largely ignored despite my cordial but firm “Hey.”

Then the chaos that is the creative writing process (and critique) began.  Now since this is my blog, I can say whatever I want right? 

Cool

Writers are a$$hole$. Or maybe more specifically, they are particularly obnoxious about their opinion. And it wasn’t just the people critiquing but the person who was also being critiqued. Every critique had some big word I didn’t understand. Every suggestion/critique was met by the creator with the lines like

 “But I REALLY like that line” or “no I’m not going to change that.” 
 
I thought the whole atmosphere was bizarre, but no one seemed disgruntled or discouraged. There were heads shaking and snarky remarks from time to time, but the whole class seemed to be on one page. Granted, I’ve only been here for 30 minutes at this point. 

And then I thought to myself..

**I WOULD BE ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE** in any other medium. With jazz, video game design, or even music production (the little I know about it) I would offer some sort of critique then refer it to some obscure example and then end up alienating certain people. Not on purpose. Not to be an a$$. But mostly due to some sort of experience in the field.  And if fact, I know I’ve done that on many occasions.

*Confidence* in your creative medium allows you to be such more open with your work. And, maybe more importantly, confidence in how skilled you are in that medium allows you to reject criticisms that you feel undermine your the purpose and vision you have for that work. That seemed to be the consensus around the room. With colleagues, every suggestion presented wasn't and shouldn't have been a change that had to be implemented. It was pretty cool lesson. Look at me, learning things outside of class.

I think I’m going to enjoy this community quite a bit! If I do present work, I’ll have to be confident about what I put up and make sure I can defend my creative choices!
