---
comments: true
layout: post
categories: blog
title: Play!
tags: [videogames, music production, web design]

---
I began two adventures (actually three) this week. The first one was to completely revamp my website! Took my a solid 3-4 hours during our Fall Break but it was worth it. For you geeks out there, check my About section cover photo. My big adventures are video game design and music production.  I’ve been learning the programming language Actionscript since the beginning of the summer so I could make games fast, accessible, and **free**. I also began the music project. I'll focus on the video games in this post.

Flash games are usually kids first foray into “quick ‘n dirty” gaming. These are the computer games you played during class on your computer when you weren't supposed to. They were fun, addictive, and most importantly short!

Flash games are computer games that are played over the Internet using a web browser. Browser games include all video game genres, can be single-player or multiplayer and are portable, having the ability to be played on any computer.

It was important for my game to be easily played so I took the time to learn a programming language completely by myself, getting help only from online documentation. It was hard! I don’t understand the deeper “complexities” of programming and I have no experience with optimizing code so this prototype takes long to load and needs more processing power.

**But it feels really good to get it out in the wild!** There’s actually no point to the game as of this point. I’ve just made a simple gaming engine with levels and a block. I added music because it’s really easy to implement ((:

To access the game, click on the  button on the top left then click Game Prototype. Depending on how fast your computer is, it can take up to a minute or 4-5 seconds to load. **REMEMBER** *It's not actually a game yet* Just a foundation I made to make better games soon!  

*The controls are
A-moves left
D-moves right
Spacebar-jumps
Hold Shift- runs *

And if you happened to jump onto a wall, you can press spacebar to “Wall Jump.” This mechanic took me ages to figure out and not near as smooth as I’d like it. If you’re good at video games, you’ll be able to use this mechanic to cheat easily ((:

But over the month and the rest of the year, I hope to add other elements such as an actual character to play, pretty backgrounds, and more “game-y” music. The music in the game so far is a mixtape my friend and I made!
To keep this post short, I’ll talk about my music production next week. Hopefully I’ll have a sample by then!
